Blog: fuzz interns (#171)
bitcoinbrink/website: _posts/2026-05-29-fuzz-testing-interns.md

---

> title: "Fuzz Testing Internships: Dongjia Zhang and Stratos"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Fuzz Testing Research Interns: Dongjia Zhang and Stratos"
```

> permalink: /blog/2026/05/29/fuzz-testing-interns/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permalink: /blog/2026/05/29/fuzz-testing-research-interns/
```

layout: post
author: brink
name: "brink"

> alt: "Fuzz Testing Internships: Dongjia Zhang and Stratos"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alt: "Fuzz Testing Research Interns: Dongjia Zhang and Stratos"
```

category: "News"

> description: "A summary of Dongjia Zhang and Stratos' fuzz testing internships."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "A summary of Dongjia Zhang and Stratos' fuzz testing research internships."
```

---

> Earlier this year, Brink sponsored two fuzz testing interns: [Dongjia

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Earlier this year, Brink awarded grants to [Dongjia
```
We want to avoid language that implies employment, compensation for services, or commercial sponsorship if the individuals were actually grant recipients conducting independent research. “Sponsored interns” can sound like an employment or contractor relationship.

Author: Took this

Zhang][dongjia github] and [Stratos][stratos github]. Both worked under the
mentorship of [Niklas Gögge][niklas x] on [Fuzzamoto][fuzzamoto blog], a
snapshot fuzzing tool to test complex and previously difficult-to-test parts of

> Bitcoin full nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zhang][dongjia github] and [Stratos][stratos github] to support their work on fuzz testing research for Bitcoin Core. Under the guidance of experienced contributor [Niklas Gögge][niklas x], each conducted independent research and experimentation on [Fuzzamoto][fuzzamoto blog], a
snapshot fuzzing tool to test complex and previously difficult-to-test parts of
Bitcoin full nodes.
```

## Dongjia Zhang

Dongjia is a Ph.D. researcher specializing in software security and fuzzing, and
is the maintainer of [LibAFL][libafl], a popular fuzzing framework written in

> Rust. His deep background in fuzzing made him a great candidate to tackle some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust. His extensive background in fuzzing research made him well suited to contribute to several
```

> of Fuzzamoto's engineering problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of Fuzzamoto's engineering and testing challenges.
```

> During his internship, Dongjia had over 40 pull requests merged. His

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During his grant-sponsored research internship, Dongjia had over 40 pull requests merged. His
```

Important to note this was a grant and not employment

> work spanned several areas:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
work included:
```

> - Extended Fuzzamoto's intermediate representation (IR) to support additional Bitcoin P2P protocols, including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extending Fuzzamoto's intermediate representation (IR) to support additional Bitcoin P2P protocols, including
```

  compact filter messages ([BIP158][bip158]) and bloom filter messages
  ([BIP37][bip37]).

> - Scaled coverage measurement to utilize multiple cores, drastically reducing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Scaling coverage measurement to utilize multiple cores, drastically reducing
```

  the time required for coverage analysis.

> - Developed a hypervisor feedback mechanism in Fuzzamoto to deliver messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Developing a hypervisor feedback mechanism in Fuzzamoto to deliver messages
```

>   from the underlying hypervisor, giving fuzzers better guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from the underlying hypervisor, giving fuzzers additional guidance.
```

> - Prototyped bug benchmarks to better evaluate Fuzzamoto's effectiveness at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prototyping bug benchmarks to help evaluate Fuzzamoto's effectiveness at
```

>   finding real bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  identifying real bugs.
```

> - Added new oracles to detect additional categories of logic bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adding new oracles to detect additional categories of logic bugs.
```

> - Improved CI pipelines and applied lints for easier long-term code maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improving CI pipelines and applying lints to support long-term code maintenance.
```

> - Contributed to LibAFL itself, improving the underlying fuzzing library that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contributing improvements to LibAFL, the underlying fuzzing library that
```

  Fuzzamoto depends on.

> Dongjia writes on his experience at Brink:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dongjia reflected on his experience at Brink:
```

> *"My internship at Brink was a perfect opportunity for me to apply my
> expertise in fuzzing to a real-world scenario. I focused on improving
> fuzzamoto, which utilizes state-of-the-art snapshot fuzzing technique to fuzz
> complex and previously un-fuzzable parts of Bitcoin clients. Contributing to
> the security of bitcoind, which impacts a lot of people, is fulfilling, but
> more importantly, my experience at Brink was very enjoyable."*

## Stratos

Stratos comes from a vulnerability research background and approached Bitcoin
Core security through a different lens:

> *"Coming from a technical background, I feel that someone like me is far more
> likely to be convinced of the revolutionary tsunami that is Bitcoin, because
> source code does not lie."*

> During his internship, Stratos contributed to Fuzzamoto by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During his grant-sponsored research internship, Stratos contributed to Fuzzamoto by:
```

- Extending Fuzzamoto's IR to support additional Bitcoin Core protocol
  primitives, including addrv2 relay and initial taproot support.
- Creating initial benchmarking work for Fuzzamoto, taking the first concrete
  steps toward measuring fuzzing effectiveness.
- Adding libbitcoin support, expanding Fuzzamoto's target reach beyond Bitcoin

>   Core, though that work remains ongoing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Core, with ongoing work continuing in that area.
```

> Stratos also explains what his internship showed him about Bitcoin development:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stratos also described what the experience showed him about Bitcoin development:
```

> *"Although technical curiosity initially drew me to this internship, what
> impressed me most (and what left me very optimistic about the future) was the
> amount of energy and resources being devoted behind the scenes to Bitcoin’s
> present and future. That experience gave me a deep appreciation and respect
> for the open-source community."*

> He was also grateful to work with Niklas throughout the process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He was expressed appreciation for Niklas Gögge’s technical guidance throughout the project:
```

> *"Niklas was an incredible help throughout that period, always available to
> answer any question I had. It was obvious that he cared deeply about every
> detail of fuzzamoto, from how a feature should be implemented incrementally to
> where and how it should be integrated."*

## Looking Ahead

> Both interns contributed meaningfully to Fuzzamoto. The work they did

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both grant recipients made meaningful contributions to Fuzzamoto. Their work
```

> extends protocol support, improves benchmarking infrastructure, scales coverage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extended protocol support, improved benchmarking infrastructure, scaled coverage
```

> analysis, and expands target coverage for this testing platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
analysis, and broadened target coverage for the testing platform.
```
